Well welcome back.
We have another challenge for you.
This challenge is gonna test your understanding of the observer design pattern.
So we're gonna do is we're gonna build a cricket application that uses this pattern to notify viewers
about the latest updates in a match.
I'm not an expert on cricket so I don't know a lot of the details but basically a cricket application
has things like runs wickets and overs.
Don't ask me what those are.
I think it's just has to do with some stats or something.
And so that's what the application is going to do it's going to let viewers know about runs wickets
and overs.
It will use the above information which I just mentioned to determine the average score and the current
score.
The viewers will be the observers will need to classes that display the average score and the current
score uses data from the subject.
The current score runs the wickets in the overs the subject will be the cricket data in the update and
update the observers whenever the runs wickets or overs changes so the steps to implement this are gonna
be first you got to create the subject interface.
This is going to contain methods for register on register and notify.
We know all know all that.
Then you got to create the concrete subjects.
This will be the cricket data.
This will contain state data for run wickets and overs.
Those can be all be hardcoded values.
We're going to also need to keep a list of all the observers.
This can be stored in whatever you like an array list.
For example you need to pass the state data to an update in the Observer and notify all and we'll also
include a method to trigger the notifications.
We have to make the data change somehow so that the notify all gets called.
So we need to add that once we're done with that we can then create the observer interface.
They should only include an update method with the state data as a parameter.
No need for any observers to talk to the subject so we don't need to add any functionality there.
No set subject.
Nothing like that as we did in our example you then have to create the concrete observer's data changes
pass to the update method.
The average score in the current score these are the two classes.
The average score observer should have data to compute the run rate and the predicted school score.
The run rate is calculated by dividing the runs divided by over the predicted score is calculated by
multiplying the run rate times 50 the current score observer should have data for runs wickets and overs.
This will just display this data when path to the update method.
No calculations.
Lastly you need to create the client to simulate some cricket data.
So you need to create the observers.
You'll need to create the subject and then you have to register the observers with the subject.
Then you have to trigger a change in the subject which will cause all the observers to be notified you
then can try to remove an observer and then re trigger to see if the observer is no longer notified.
That will ensure that your observer design pattern is implemented properly some example output.
Here's some examples with the average score display class the run rate in the predicted score with just
hardcoded values the current score display runs 90 wickets two overs ten point two and then again and
we then removed something and we saw the current score display again for a different observer so this
is what I want you to do.
This is what I want and implement to test your understanding of the observed design pattern.
Many of you may be familiar with crickets and all these terms will be self explanatory but again you're
really just calling the Update method whenever state data changes.
Thank you.